Otbn rnd (#5470)
lowRISC/opentitan: hw/ip/otbn/doc/_index.md

In this case, the read is ordered before the write.
Providing the stack has at least one element, this is allowed, even if the stack is full.

> ### Random Numbers

Author: For now is it OK to leave this as is (though I've moved it into the Design Details section) with an issue to refactor the documentation to have programmer facing that is purely about the OTBN programming model and hardware/implementor facing that has details about things like the EDN? The two concepts are mixed up in a few places so I think we're better off dealing with it all together.

Control and Status Registers (CSRs) are 32b wide registers used for "special" purposes, as detailed in their description;
they are not related to the GPRs.
CSRs can be accessed through dedicated instructions, `CSRRS` and `CSRRW`.

> Writes to read-only registers are ignored, they do not signal an error.

Reviewer: Nit: this should be a semicolon or a full stop (and the same for the other hunk).

      <td>
        <strong>RND</strong>.

>         A random number.

Reviewer 2: Replace this with the one-liner we come up with for RND.

        The number is sourced from the EDN via a single-entry cache.

>         Reads when the cache is empty will cause OTBN to be stalled until a new random number is fetched from the EDN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Reads when the cache is empty will cause OTBN to be stalled until a new random number is available.
```

The EDN is mostly a transmission network, the delay mostly comes from the physical noise source, the checking, conditioning, etc. I don't think that matters too much here, allowing us to keep it vague and focused on the behavior observed by the software developer.

      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>0xFC1</td>
      <td>RW</td>
      <td>
        <strong>RND_PREFETCH</strong>.

>         Write to this CSR to begin a EDN request to fill the RND cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Write to this CSR to begin an EDN request to fill the RND cache.
```

        Always reads as 0.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>0xFC2</td>
      <td>R</td>
      <td>
        <strong>URND</strong>.

>         A random number.

Reviewer 2: Replace this with the one-liner we come up with for URND.

## Design Details

> ### Random Numbers

Author: I put it just below memories, as the other stuff concerns errors/alerts and top-level interfacing and I thought things related to main features you'd use in a program should come first.

OTBN is connected to the [Entropy Distribution Network (EDN)]({{< relref "hw/ip/edn/doc" >}}) which can provide random numbers via the `RND` and `URND` CSRs and WSRs.

`RND` provides bits taken directly from the EDN.

> As an EDN request can take time `RND` is backed by a single-entry cache containing the result of the most recent EDN request.

Reviewer: Nit: Missing comma after "time"

A read from `RND` empties this cache.

> A prefetch into the cache, which can be used to hide the EDN latency, is triggered on any write to the `RND_PREFETCH` CSR.

Reviewer: If I do two writes to RND_PREFETCH back to back, I assume the second has no effect? Maybe this needs rephrasing slightly?

> If the cache is empty when a read from `RND` occurs a EDN request will be made if one isn't in progress already (due to the prefetch).

Reviewer: Missing comma after "occurs". Also, maybe the stuff in parens at the end should be "due to a previous write to RND_PREFETCH"?

OTBN will stall until the request provides bits.

> Both the `RND` CSR and WSR take their bits from the same cache, `RND` CSR reads simply discard the other 192 bits on a read.

Reviewer: This should be a semicolon or full stop, not a comma. I'd probably go for a full stop.

But then I like short sentences.
Really short. :-)

> When stalling on an `RND` read OTBN will unstall the cycle after `otbn_core` receives WLEN RND data from the EDN.

Reviewer: Missing comma after "read". Also, maybe "unstall on the cycle..."? Otherwise it sounds like we're unstalling a cycle (whatever that might mean)

> `URND` provides bits from an LFSR, reads from it never stall.

Reviewer: Semicolon or full stop for two independent clauses.
